Before looking at the functions of each of these units a
brief look ack the timing is needed. Figure 3 illustrates this
timing. The CPU-Memory clock is 375KHz, One complete clock period,
defined as a bit time is 2.66yusec., Every 20 consecutive bit times
are defined as a word, The first bit time of a word is called TO,
and the last time of the word is called T19. Two types of words
are used in the system, W, and Wg: in Was the arithmetical
algorithms operate and instruction words are shifted serially
into each functional unit. In Wy, computational inputs and out-
puts are shifted serially among the units, A word mark used to
distinguish word times is a signal coincident with T18 of every
word time, Two consecutive word times, Wy, and Wo; is called an
operation (op) time. To distinguish the final operation time
a frame mark is generated in the system executive control, The
time between frame marks is called a frame. A frame includes
one complete cycle of computations, The frame mark is micro-
programmed to allow the user to restart the computational cycle
when all previous computations are complete. Since this system
must operate in real time it was therefore necessary to obtain
the most computation from each functional unit during each frame

time,

ARITHMETIC UNITS

The Parallel Multiplier Unit accepts two serial inputs,
multiplicand and multiplier, in one word time (Wo) and produces
their properly rounded product by means of a parallel algorithm

in one more word time.

The product is shifted out in the next Wy, while inputs for
the next operation are simultaneously shifted ot The multiplication
operation is achieved using Booth's algorithm’, The PMU does not
need an instruction word to operate, but is capable of operating
continuously in this manner.

The Parallel Divider Unit accepts two serial inputs, dividend
and divisor, in one word time (Wa) and produces the proper quotient

2. Yoahan Chu, Digital Computer’ Design Fundamentals, McGrawHill
Book Co., N.¥., 1962, pg. 32.
